=== Rudder Agent workflow 

In this chapter, we will have a more detailed view of the Rudder Agent
workflow. What files and processes are created or modified at the installation
of the Rudder Agent? What is happening when a new Node is created? What are the
recurrent tasks performed by the Rudder Agent? How does the Rudder Server handle
the requests coming from the Rudder Agent? The Rudder Agent workflow schema
summarizes the process that will be described in the next pages.

["graphviz", "agent_workflow.png"]

.Rudder Agent workflow

-------

include::../graphviz/agent_workflow.dot[]

------

Let's consider the Rudder Agent is installed and configured on the new Node.

The Rudder Agent is regularly launched and performs following tasks
sequentially, in this order: 

==== Request data from Rudder Server

The first action of Rudder Agent is to fetch the +tools+ directory from Rudder
Server. This directory is located at +/opt/rudder/share/tools+ on the Rudder
Server and at +/var/rudder/tools+ on the Node. If this directory is already
present, only changes will be updated.

The agent then try to fetch new Applied Policies from Rudder Server. Only
requests from valid Nodes will be accepted. At first run and until the Node has
been validated in Rudder, this step fails.

==== Launch processes

Ensure that the CFEngine community daemons +cf-execd+ and +cf-serverd+ are
running. Try to start these daemons if they are not already started.

Daily between 5:00 and 5:05, relaunch the CFEngine Community daemons +cf-execd+
and +cf-serverd+.

Add a line in +/etc/crontab+ to launch +cf-execd+ if it's not running.

Ensure again that the CFEngine community daemons +cf-execd+ and +cf-serverd+
are running. Try to start these daemons if they are not already started.

==== Identify Rudder Root Server

Ensure the +curl+ package is installed. Install the package if it's not
present.

Get the identifier of the Rudder Root Server, necessary to generate reports.
The URL of the identifier is http://Rudder_root_server/uuid


==== Inventory

If no inventory has been sent since 8 hours, or if a forced inventory has been
requested (class +force_inventory+ is defined), do and send an inventory to the
server.
----

rudder agent inventory

----

No reports are generated until the Node has been validated in Rudder Server.

==== Syslog

After validation of the Node, the system log service of the Node is configured
to send reports regularly to the server. Supported system log providers are:
+syslogd+, +rsyslogd+ and +syslog-ng+.

==== Apply Directives

Apply other policies and write reports locally.

